feat(docs): add hacktoberfest post (#1086)
questdb/questdb.io: blog/2022-09-30-hacktoberfest-questdb.md

participants who
[successfully completed the requirements](https://hacktoberfest.com/participation/#contributors)
will be rewarded with a special-edition Hacktoberfest T-shirt 👕 or a tree
planted in your name. 🌴

Participating in Hacktoberfest is one of our approaches to raise awareness and
encourage more developers or technical writers to contribute to open source. We
welcome both code and non-code contributions, such as docs improvement,
tutorials, and blog posts.

## ⛳ About us

[QuestDB](https://github.com/questdb/questdb) is a high-performance open-source
database for time series. The project is built from scratch in Java and C++ with
no dependencies and zero garbage collection. It is optimized for high-throughput
ingestion over InfluxDB line protocol and fast SQL queries. QuestDB is also one
of the most popular time series databases according to the independent reviewer
[DBEngines](https://db-engines.com/en/ranking/time+series+dbms).

Developers can use QuestDB as a library for java applications.
[Official clients](/docs/reference/clients/overview/) for Python, Go, C, C++,
Node.js, Rust, and .NET. are also available for the wider developer community.

> This year, there are three QuestDB open source projects opted in for

Reviewer: we have more than 3, maybe we include clients also?

https://github.com/orgs/questdb/repositories?q=client&type=public&language=&sort=

Author: for now they're not opted in yet and we don't have good ideas for issues. I'd leave it out for now - will collect some ideas from others for this next week.

Hacktoberfest:

1. [**QuestDB**](https://github.com/questdb/questdb): QuestDB core database,
   mainly written in Java and C++. Check
   [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/questdb/questdb/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
   to get started.
2. [**Documentation**](https://github.com/questdb/questdb.io): QuestDB's website
   for documentation, suitable for technical writers who're experienced in
   Docusaurus and Markdown. Read
   [our guidelinesm for docs contributors](https://github.com/questdb/questdb.io#contributing).

> 3. [**Web console**](https://github.com/questdb/ui): Monorepo that contains web

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. [**Web console**](https://github.com/questdb/ui/tree/main/packages/web-console): Monorepo that contains web
```

let's link straight to the `web-console` package

---
title: Join Hacktoberfest 2022 and contribute to QuestDB!
author: Pei-Shan Wu
author_title: QuestDB Team
author_url: https://github.com/pswu11
author_image_url: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/pswu11
description:
  Hacktoberfest 2022 is starting! We are super excited to meet with other open
  source contributors and maintainers. To celebrate this, we put together some
  hints for you to get started.
keywords:
  - database
  - opensource
  - timeseries
  - hacktoberfest
  - java
  - react
image: /img/blog/2022-09-30/banner-hacktoberfest.png
tags: [community, event, hacktoberfest, github, swag, opensource]
---

Hacktoberfest 2022 is starting soon! We're super excited about joining
Hackberfest again and meeting new or returning open-source contributors! 🤝

<!--truncate-->

import Screenshot from "@theme/Screenshot"

<Screenshot
  alt="QuestDB at Hacktoberfest 2022"
  height={450}
  src="/img/blog/2022-09-30/banner-hacktoberfest.png"
  width={800}
/>

## Hacktoberfest

> For those who're not familiar with Hacktoberfest, it's a month-long online

Reviewer 2: I don't have a good explanation for this but this sounds better to my ears:

```suggestion
For those who aren't familiar with Hacktoberfest, it's a month-long online
```

> celebration for open-source software and communities. The first 40,000

Reviewer 2: softwares or maybe "projects"?
```suggestion
celebration for open-source softwares and communities. The first 40,000
```

participants who
[successfully completed the requirements](https://hacktoberfest.com/participation/#contributors)
will be rewarded with a special-edition Hacktoberfest T-shirt 👕 or a tree
planted in your name. 🌴

Participating in Hacktoberfest is one of our approaches to raise awareness and

> encourage more developers or technical writers to contribute to open source. And
> to us, we welcome both code contributions and non-code contributions, such as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
encourage more developers or technical writers to contribute to open source. We welcome both code contributions and non-code contributions, such as
```

[DBEngines](https://db-engines.com/en/ranking/time+series+dbms).

Developers can use QuestDB as a library for java applications.
[Official clients](/docs/reference/clients/overview/) for Python, Go, C, C++,
Node.js, Rust, and .NET. are also available for the wider developer community.

This year, there are three QuestDB open source projects opted in for
Hacktoberfest:

1. [**QuestDB**](https://github.com/questdb/questdb): QuestDB core database,
   mainly written in Java and C++. Check
   [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/questdb/questdb/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
   to get started.
2. [**Documentation**](https://github.com/questdb/questdb.io): QuestDB's website
   for documentation, suitable for technical writers who're experienced in
   Docusaurus and Markdown. Read
   [our guidelinesm for docs contributors](https://github.com/questdb/questdb.io#contributing).
3. [**Web console**](https://github.com/questdb/ui): Monorepo that contains web
   console components.

## 🚀 Contribute to QuestDB

If you're interested in contributing to QuestDB, make sure you read the official
guidelines about
[contributors](https://hacktoberfest.com/participation/#contributors),

> [pull requests](https://hacktoberfest.com/participation/#pr-mr-details) and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[pull requests](https://hacktoberfest.com/participation/#pr-mr-details), and
```
You like Oxford comma right? ;p

[spam](https://hacktoberfest.com/participation/#spam).

To maintain a friendly environment for both maintainers and contributors, we put
together extra recommendations to increase the chance that your pull requests
get accepted:

- Pay attention to `CONTRIBUTING.md` or any contribution guidelines available.
- Start with existing issues instead of inventing new ones. While new ideas are
  generally welcomed, they don't always fit the project roadmap.
- Filter issues with `good first issues` or `help wanted` tags if you're new to
  the projects.
- Avoid commenting on all the available issues but those you really plan to work
  on, so you can leave some opportunities to other contributors.
- Our maintainers will review your pull requests, please make sure you address
  all the comments before asking for another review.

## 🎁 QuestDB swag

In addition to the official reward, if you successfully contribute one valid

> pull-request to QuestDB projects listed above, we offer an extra QuestDB T-shirt

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
pull-request to any of the QuestDB projects listed above, we offer an extra QuestDB T-shirt
```

> for you through our [swag program](/community). 🚀

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for you through our [swag program](/community/). 🚀
```
Is this correct?

<Screenshot
  alt="QuestDB swag at Hacktoberfest 2022"
  height={450}
  src="/img/blog/2022-09-30/swag-hacktoberfest.png"
  width={800}
/>

## ℹ️ Get help

> Some questions might appear when you're trying to contribute to QuestDB

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have any questions when trying to contribute to QuestDB
```

projects; here are the places to get help from our team:

> - **Community Slack**: [https://slack.questdb.io](https://slack.questdb.io);

Reviewer 2: Is there a special reason why we don't do hyperlink here and below? (just curious!)

  join #contributors channel.
- **Documentation**: [https://questdb.io/docs](/docs/)
- **StackOverflow**:
  [https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/questdb](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/questdb)

Also, don't forget to follow us on social media to receive the latest updates:

- **Twitter**: [https://twitter.com/questdb](https://twitter.com/questdb)
- **Linkedin**:
  [https://www.linkedin.com/company/questdb/](https://www.linkedin.com/company/questdb/)

> Lastly, star our [GitHub repo](https://github.com/questdb/questdb) if you

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Last but not least, star our [GitHub repo](https://github.com/questdb/questdb) if you
```
